# 2018-05-01
Location: Mozilla

Attendance
  - Joey
  - Vivian
  - Marjorie
  - Zach
  - Jason
  - Dilini
  - Sean

# Recap of the Design Sprint
> Check the doc for more info!

  - Thanks for everyone who attended (and tried to attend :P )
## What We Did  
  1. Lightning Demos
    - got some neat ideas from existing solutions
  2. Crazy Eights
    - made lots of quick 1 minute solutions
    - then eight quick sketches of iterations of our idea
  3. Sketch Ideas
    - expanded on our favorite crazy eight idea

# Our Ideas from the sprint

## Ticket system
  - similar to concerts
  - one number for guest, one number for location
  - shelter has tickets to give out equal to the number of beds they have
  - staff member inputs the tickets code to upload that a bed was used onto the database

## Door keeps count
  - The door has sensors that count when people move in and out
  - Head count becomes nearly invisible, staff member doesn't have to watch the door.
> How does this work with locations that are not always shelter spaces?

## Space Occupancy Marker
  - Guest checks into shelter from screen at the front
  - front desk gives guest a marker
  - guest physically claims space with the marker
  - staff checks occupancy availability by counted non marked spaces
> Add glow in the dark markers?
> How does this work with mats?
> This might cause altercations if someone does not respect the rules and sleeps in claimed bed

## In and Out Entry
  - Guest speaks to staff member
  - staff collects their information and adds them to the system
  - when leaving the site, guest is prompted to answer whether they will be coming back or not.
    - if they are going out temporarily their space is reserved
    - if leaving for the night, their space is freed up
    - if they are gone longer than [some amount] of time, their space is freed up
>
- Coming back notification would be cool.
- What about guests that just come and go?
- Could their be abuse of this system to free up space for their friends
- How can checkin happen fast if theres a long lineup?

## Proecdure and Policy
  - Increasing Staff engagement and training to reduce implenmentation barriers
  - learning the existing procedure at locations
>
- need to analyze the operational policies in playe locations to make sure we are operating within these bounderies
- would screening staff and volunteers for technical proficiencey make it harder to get volunteers and staff?

## Status Based Database
  - software shows the overview of the capacity of the dashboard
  - each site's availbility status for each space can be seen; the geuesets checkin and out with fingerprint scans. p
>
- fingerprint might be stigmatizing
- card or bracelet instead?
- it would be cool if cots had separators for privacy

## Quck input check-in
  - Guesets arrive and cdheck in with staff member who can quickly view available spaces
> iltered input is cool; cool staff interface; How do people check out? Does this meet data requirements of SSHA?

## Sean's Ideas
  - optical tracking
  - RFID
  - phone
  - use OpenCV to scan glyph on wristband
  - webcam at the front to scan the glyphs
> Me (Sean) I'm really good at computer vision!!

////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

# Discussing the winning solution
  - computer vision might be a neat solutoin
    - what is the fidelity of the data we want;
      * how much info on each individual user?
      * Just raw capacity number?
  - How do we install something temporarily? Some of these locations are not shelters during the day.
  - Braclet with barcode?
    * logistics of distributing bracelet?
    * stigmatizing
  - St. Felix is like this:
    - one desk with two volunteers at a couple that ask "would you like to sign in"
- Max looking for places to volunteer, may be interested in testing at ootc, interview questions

# Questions for Max
  - Are people counted mulitple times at different times at night
  - Are people counted as they come in the door
  - Are people asked their age? Is their age estimated?
  - Who is in charge of head counts?
  - How does the ticket system work?
  - Who determines a reasonable maximum capacity?
    - how flexible is the determined number?
  - Who takes the call fronm sharc for headcount?
  - how are numbers relayed back to sharc? Phone? EXEL?

  - what do you like best about taking a head count?
  - what is the biggest painpoint of taking a headcount?

  - how much time do you spend on the phone talking to referral services, getting capacity numbers, talking to SHARC/SSHA

  To SSHA: What information would you want from OOTC/WRS? What are your information requirements?
    - What are your current requirements?
    - What would you like to recieve?


# Action Items
  - Give Max Questions for OOTC (Add them above!)
  - Add ideas for the winning solution sketch! (Check the SlideShow Summary!)
  
