g0v.news

# 2018-05-22
Location: Massey College
Attendance:
  * Sean
  * Zach`
  * Dillini
  * Jenny

# Last Week
  + continue to build repour with shelter staff
  + talk with CG about strong strategies for headcounts that exist in city shelters

# Focus going forward
  + SMIS is very *enterprise*. Often, not all staff at a shelter have training in SMIS

# What our plaform focus is right now
  + building a technical solution for keeping accurate shelter capacity numbers that minimizes change to the existing shelter workflow
  + what motivation do people have to check out?
    - a staff member would have to recognize the user

### How do we gather information without making guests feel uncomfortable, or incumbering the staff.

#### Computer Vision
  + St. Felix is already under survielleince.
    - maybe they would let us install an additional camera? Just a webcam connected to a computer?

#### Unique properties of St. Felix
  + They keep regular head counts to stay under firecode capacity; they are very strict about.

#### How people are motivated to checkout at St. Felix
  1. people get assigned beds at 9:30 am. They line up, and it's first come first serve. everyone else is placed on a wait list.
  2. At intervals throughtout the day (3hr intervals from 9am-12; two hour intervasl 12pm-6pm; 1 hour intervals after 6), they perform headcounts to check firecode capacity and to see who is in the building. If someone is not in the building who has reserved a bed, they are given away to the first person on the bed waiting list.
  3. If someone wants to leave the building, but maintain their bed, they fill out a check-out form with a staff member. The form details where they are going and how long they will be gone for.
  4. If a bed was reserved, and the person who reserved it is checked out, it can be loaned out to someone until the person who reserved it returns.

# Collaberation with 211
  + our solution could really streamline 211's operations

#### Sanctuary has peak hours
  + between 6-7pm Sanctuary gets very full
  + it would be neat if 211 knew what peak hours were for each shelter/resource location

# "Pop-up" shelters
  + Shelter spaces have a variety of permanence
    - some Out of the Cold programs are permanent, some are seasonal, some are contextual (they only open when all others are at capacity)

# Using Color on the Trello board
  Red: issues
  Blue: shelter related
  Purple: Silly ones

  Priority can be determined by order on the card list

# Action Items
  + find out who enforces firecode capacity at respite sites and OOTC sites
