# 2018-02-10
Location: Chalmerston
Attendance:
  * MisterChalmers

# MisterChalmers Ramblings...

**People want to be valued.**

This is why the wood cards worked better than the paper handouts. They took some work to make, and so they proved the person recieving it is valued.

If we were to extend this broadly to the city budget for SSHA we would make two areas focus points:

  1. Hire many more case workers for OW
  2. increase shelter capaciy (which SSHA is already doing, and is will improve the service quality of all shelters probably)

Having a person who takes the time to talk to you and help you interface with the city would be more valuable than the cards. Currently OW caseworkers are overloaded with more than 100 clients per sometimes.

The relationship between caseworker and client would be fundementally different if the caseworker could have the time to hang out with their client. It seems strange to suggest it, but having allocated time to just enjoy each other's company and do something like play some video games or see a movie... we think this would fundementally increase the repour of the relationship in many cases.

Though, (to even further stretch our speculation), we think the activity should be organized in such a way so that it is not as if the caseworker is "treating" the client, for example to a movie. It would be a hangout, as if between new roomates, instead of a handout.

In fact, making them roomates is an interesting thought. Having any shared space which has a utility to both of them would seem to capture it. A place to sleep would be one example, or if they both liked videogames, a shared videogame chilling spot. Or maybe a shared small maker space. Or a studio.

Perhaps sharing an empty room with on inherent utility, but with the tools to add utility, like a poster printing voucher or something.
