# 2018-03-13 Chalmers Notes

Location: [Civic Tech TO at TWG](https://www.meetup.com/Civic-Tech-Toronto/events/247978060/)

Attendance:
* Zach
* Marica
* Andrew
* Josh

## Reported on bringing Chalmers Cards to St Stephens Drop in
  + Most of the folks who showed up to St. Stephens had a lot of experience with shelters and sleeping on the street. The card wasn't very useful to most of the folks there. They felt they knew enough, and the cards should be given to folks who would more likely need it.

## Feedback
  + Marica says maybe add braille to the card
  + Andrew from Wysp says legibility is the most important thing

**We are working on adding electronics to the the Chalmers Cards**

## Internet of Things with one Thing, no Internet, and no tracking
  + Internet connection for the cards would be spotty
    - battery power is limited
    - internet connection for free is difficult
    - would need to use a free network, or pay for mobile coverage
  + Privacy must be respected.
    - a google account that isn't tied to your identity still produces useful data and can be tracked
    - can be tied to your identity by looking for similarities in the tracked google account and the accounts that are tied to legal identities.

### What free networks are available in Toronto??   
  + [Toronto Mesh](tomesh.net)

### How to track someone's product use while repecting their privacy
  + If the device only recieves information, and does not send out any information, then it is an internet of things device that respects the users privacy.
  + The user is only an endpoint.

### A single board computer
#### A cheap single board computer, like a pi zero would be able to...
  + store and update a database of drop in location hours
  + use a gps module to know where it is relative to resource locations
  + use a compass module to know true north
  + store a desktop environment for when a monitor is connected.
  + use wifi to connect to free library internet, and TO Mesh when available
    - use desktop enviornment with monitor and internet
    - update database of resource locations and hours
  + with the permission of the user, could store some ID information (legal name or sudonym) which could be used during resource registration
